Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has defended himself against
accusations he's blocking a hostage deal
with Hamas this comes as protesters in
Israel took to the streets for a second
consecutive night the latest Mass
demonstration sparked by the killing of
six hostages in Gaza who were shot by
their captives as Israeli forces
approached protesters are demanding
their government make a deal to free the
captives still held by Hamas Netanyahu
apologized to the families of the six
captives is found dead but he insisted
he would press on with Israel's military
campaign in Gaza and keep control of
strategic territory a Middle East
analyst shannie ranus has more on this
so Netanyahu says he's sorry but it
doesn't sound like he's budging on
anything well correct I mean it did you
know seem like yesterday was him just
trying to find more justifications and
basically explain to the Israelis where
he stands and why he stands where he is
and in that aspect why he's refusing um
to go ahead with the deal as much as you
know the pressure on the street is is
going um netan is very clearly not
aiming to wind this down or to go to any
sucession of hostilities or the fire
anytime soon and he's trying to explain
why that's the case and so anybody who
was hoping that the pressure uh of the
public would be the one bringing Neno to
shift his position saw yesterday a very
defiant prime minister trying to
actually uh gain support for an action
that is quite the opposite of what we
see from the streets demand and one of
those sticking points is this 14 km
buffer zone along the Egyptian gazen
border the Philadelphia Corridor which
the Israelis want to hold on to in order
to have some sort of control over the
Gaza Strip is this one of his aims or
one of Israel's aims well that border
we're talking about the Philadelphia
Corridor that's exactly uh the only way
for Gaza outside you know the only
border that is not with Israel but
rather with Egypt netan claims and he we
saww a whole presentation last night
that this is the only way to make sure
that Hamas does not regain power get
more ammunition through you know smuggle
through the Border but then a lot of if
you talk to the defense minister or any
other you know members leading members
of the defense mechanism in Israel they
say this is not the case Israel can
always take Philadelphia Corridor again
if needed and also they point to the
fact that it takeen Israel about eight
months deep into the war in Gaza before
it even reached that part so they say if
this is such a vital part of the war how
come it wasn't one of our first targets
sort of trying to talk about nany's uh
attempt to use the Philadelphia Corridor
as an excuse not to go on with a deal
rather than actually a sticking point
that is that meaningful and this is the
Deep Rift we are seeing between netan
and you know the more professional uh
you know uh leaders of the war in the in
the end in the military uh and this deep
Rift is you know is is such that they
cannot do anything that Nano does not
want to do you see the the public
hearing them and this is where you see
the big distrust you know on the streets
people do not trust n because they hear
so many other people say this not have
to be the case and time is running out
for the remaining hostages just how
desperate are those people in the
streets the Israelis when it when it
comes to getting some sort of deal
finishing this war in comparison to the
the desperation among Palestinians to
see some sort of end if you look at
polling numbers most of Israeli support
a deal including everything that it will
take like giving up the control over
Philadelphia Corridor you like releasing
lots of mass murders you know that have
been you know captured by Israeli kept
in Israeli prisoners do support that but
not netanyahu's base and this is exactly
what we're seeing he's catering to his
base he still has very strong support in
his Coalition and that's what drives his
decisions right now he as long as he
doesn't have any threat from his
Coalition I doubt we will see netan
changing um his t on this and if you
talk about Palestinians you know I also
talk to colleagues and friends there
that did the desperation the the
frustration the sadness you know I mean
it's it's endless I mean it's the I was
talking to some of them in the last days
they were hoping that what's happening
on the streets in Israel will bring to a
change but obviously uh always hard to
break their hearts saying we are not
there yet and what we're seeing the
Americans focusing more and more on the
campaign there um you know the election
campaign of you know Biden trying to
support Harris AA you know Gaza becomes
a more minor topic for the world's uh
arena for international attention and
they feel being left behind maybe
rightfully so and and you know
unfortunately we don't see where any of
the sides you know we need to keep in
mind we also have Kamas here and they
don't seem to be too eager on going for
a deal as well um the people you know on
both sides in Palestine and Israel might
be somewhere else and where the leaders
are and we don't see any you know any
solution coming in the next you know
couple of months weeks ahead of us
unfortunately it doesn't sound good at
all I find it interesting that you say
that Netanyahu is pandering to his base
but you know is that going to secure him
a future well it does so far it does he
doesn't have any threat to his uh to his
Reign I mean there's nothing right now
uh that makes you know net feel that he
needs to go to election anytime before
the set date in three years so far he's
holding Stone wow shaie thank you very
much for the analysis interesting stuff
you're welcome